[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to slash forward the channel we
provide summarization and commentary for
all your favorite popular obscure horror
Lee's Merry Christmas
we're taking a breather from the final
destination series so we can stay on
theme and think Santa Claus we've been
blessed with the gift of Krampus until
then the sub-genre of Christmas themed
horror movies seemed a bit thin except
that it absolutely was not there are
lots of solid offerings here and we're
gonna dive into one of the alternatives
it's not discussed often but seems to be
well regarded when it does come up it's
the 2010 finished film rare exports
should it be more widely known let's
take a look and decide
we open on the group of men doing some
light excavating at the top of a small
to moderate sized mountain overlooking a
rural norwegian town we come upon the
group as they make an unusual discovery
they've reached the depth of 1300 feet
and found sawdust that doesn't make
sense it does okay we find out the
mountain is like a giant icebox you just
have to drill down to unlock its secrets
well fine
given this the sponsor of this affair
provides the foreman with new
instructions for the men which includes
refraining from foul language in washing
behind the ears
but he never specifies if it counts just
let the shampoo rinse off into the area
he states they're standing on a giant
burial ground and that given its
December 1st they have 24 days to
uncover it leaving it up to them to
infer his meaning two young boys who
were looking on retreat down the
mountain safely outside the fence Peter
expresses his disappointment in finding
out that Santa is either dead or not
real that is a lot to take in truthfully
they go to their respective homes over a
backdrop of mountaintop blasting Peter
gets to work studying up on what can
only be described as an amazing
collection of old school Santa material
contained in his rural home which
happens to be close to the base of the
excavation site now one day to Christmas
Peter's father's engaged in the holiday
preparations busily working to hone the
points of his Christmas Day poking
sticks we discover he's actually setting
a trap for some sort of large predatory
animal as he covers the hole and dangles
a yummy Boar's Head over it but when
Peter wakes up he takes a look at his
reverse advent calendar and then takes a
glance at the window he sees footprints
in the snow outside an unsettling
discovery he then demonstrates the
depths to which his Viking blood flows
as he walks around outside in his
underwear Peters in a bit of a pickle
though we come to find out that his
father is a butcher and doesn't want him
to come in and see the gruesome scene
but the previously set trap was for a
wolf and Peter doesn't want to get eaten
a reasonable dilemma which Peter solves
by entering without watching as his
father really works the crotch on this
carcass
Peter verifies that his dad hasn't been
hanging out on the roof so the
footprints aren't his with that
partially settled they get ready for the
town round up an event where they bring
in the reindeer crop for the year Peter
gets a bitchin rifle to run around with
as they prepare to watch the reindeer
herd arrive unfortunately only two deer
show up to the murder party ah bummer
they go off in search of the herd and
luck out they found them and their pre
masticated the trail of eviscerated
remains leads them to the excavation
site they spent some time trying to sort
out the situation
the adults assume the blasting riled up
the wolf population and the boys assumed
their fence hole let the Wolves out too
in the herd the problem is that the site
is technically across the Russian border
so there is risk and crossing however
after an accounting of the size of their
loss router decides they don't have much
to lose at this point and charges up the
hill when they reach the top they find
the site abandoned there's not much to
be learned as the only remains are a
sparse cabin and a giant gaping hole
from which they pulled something as dad
makes Christmas dinner Petr shares his
research with his friend villagers tired
of Saint Nick snatching their kids for
committing the simplest of sins lured
him to a lake where they trapped him in
ice they dug him out in the summer and
cold packed him in the burial mound that
eventually turned into the mountain
Peter and his dad share a moment and
then Peter falls asleep while on guard
having armed himself and donned the best
protection he could find to prevent
errant a slashings in a brief cutscene
we find out the men have abandoned their
post because the object of their
endeavor was still alive and the workers
began disappearing as a result net crap
was creeping them out on Christmas
morning we learned more about unusual
Norwegian traditions which includes a
bear trap in the fireplace while
relieving himself Peter seized the bait
is off the hook over the trap dad goes
out to take a peek and finds that he's
captured a real-life werewolf except by
the time he's arrived it's turned back
into a regular man the dad calls in his
buddy I'm going to avoid saying names as
much as possible this guy's name is
spelled like this I have no idea how to
anglicize them as they racked their
brains trying to figure out a way out of
this situation if they realize they're
inside a butcher's workshop Peter spends
some time in the pit and finds a sweet
burlap sack inside it is an old good guy
doll built in Satan's workshop brightest
a men in sight prepared to separate the
arm their guests to clients he's showing
signs of life and as peter approaches
gets his sniffer sniffing weird but we
don't get a chance to examine this
further as peter runs off and Flags down
a police officer his dad follows along
and manages to catch up with them at a
neighbor's house through a tentative
conversation they confirm that Peter
doesn't seem to have run off for fear of
his father and that a lot of strange
things have been occurring all over town
everyone's radiators are missing and all
the potatoes are now sackless Peters the
first to inquire about the children he
goes to check on his friend and finds
one of the creepy dolls in this place
back at the shop this guy is snacking on
some gingerbread and recognizes some
involuntary responses from the stranger
when he gets within kissing distance he
ends up losing a chunk of year worth our
friend up now they begin to interrogate
him a bit more seriously
based on the passport they found they
assume he's American and one of the
excavators however they're unable to
elicit a response in either language so
they begin to brandish their poking
sticks in the hopes they can jab a
response out of him meanwhile Peter is
calling the rest of the children and
discovering how casually Villages
parents
none of them have seen their kids but
they all assume they're just out running
around town the men are out of ideas for
getting a response from their pal until
Peter arrives and the stranger comes
alive Peter seems to immediately realize
the stakes here and attempts to
prostrate himself before father to atone
for his sins unfortunately for him
Danny's gone soft with Peter now a part
of the group the strangers up an alert
and intently staring into Peter's soul
Peter verbalizes his suspicions for the
others and introduces this gentleman to
Santa Claus dug up from the top of the
mountain refusing to take any
unnecessary risk so they preemptively
shoot him and tie him up as they
consider their next steps a radio from
the discarded clothing they found with
him crackles to life they hear someone
asking about the status of Santa Claus
still thinking about their significant
financial loss they communicate back
suggesting they have him and are willing
to give him back for a price they
arrived at the spot and are greeted by a
familiar face they quickly come to terms
and begin discussing money he demands
proof first so they show him the cargo
when he takes a look he realizes
something that's not dawned on anyone
else yet this is actually one of Santa's
helpers not the big man himself
recognizing that he walked into a
potential minefield he immediately
begins rattling off the rules for them
as a helicopter pilot is dragged off by
an unseen danger which then becomes an
excessively seen danger as the group
finds themselves surrounded in the
darkness by a bunch of unexpected and
unnecessarily naked old men they run for
cover in a nearby hangar and discover
what happened to the radiators and
potato sacks Santa's helpers are trying
to defrost him in time for Christmas so
he can sit in judgment of the town's
population of children and considering
that the parents each independently
assume their children were out carousing
when they couldn't find them but we can
guess this doesn't bode well for them
Peter armed with knowledge thus
completing the first half of the battle
takes charge of the group and enacts a
plan knowing the helpers won't leave the
children he plans to use them to draw
the helpers away while the others use
the available dynamite to blow Santa
Claus to smithereens gingerbread is used
to distract the helpers as a side note I
know they're elves but in the name of
Legolas I cannot bring myself to say it
also in an abundance of caution I may
have over blurred some of these shots
they're dark and it's really hard to
tell what's what so they can commandeer
the helicopter they round up all the
children and fly off on the others drill
holes in the ice and plug them with
sticks and dynamite then they grab a
souvenir and take off meanwhile we see
that the aim is to guide the helpers
into the reindeer pen but the gates been
left closed finding his courage Peter
sacrifices himself to save the children
and opens the gate right as a giant herd
of naked old men begins to overtake him
is at this moment that they triggered
the dynamite ending Christmas from the
rest of
with the head elf now gone we see that
the helpers had become aimless and
docile a happy ending for all well
except for the helpers after an
unnerving discussion of their potential
monetary value they get cleaned up and
taught the proper way to behave around
children and now for a rehabilitative
purposes but so that they can be boxed
up and shipped to areas that presumably
have few restrictions on what would
appear to any outsider as selling human
beings dark turn movie and there you
have it a Christmas themed horror film
that revolves around the legend of evil
Santa is not Krampus which isn't to
denigrate Krampus but just to accentuate
that we need more movies like this the
origin story of Santa Claus is rich with
horror potential asks for rare exports I
wouldn't like to have seen Santa out of
the ice but they likely didn't have the
budget for it based on how they built
and left to be a giant monster the film
still has a good amount of suspense in
dark tones and is well worth adding to
any holiday themed collection I hope
this video demonstrated that thanks for
watching
[Music]